good afternoon everybody thanks for
coming to the session the session is
deep dive on Amazon EMR best practices
in design patterns my name is John fritz
I'm senior product manager for Amazon
EMR and i'm joined by naveen from
asurion who's a senior role senior
principal architect I'm actually before
we get started how many people here run
Hadoop or spark by by show of hands fair
amount that's good how many folks run it
on AWS today in fair amount and then how
many folks in the audience run it on EMR
great so we'll go over an overview of
the presentation I will start out with a
quick overview of the Apache ecosystem
available on EMR might be a refresher
for some of you who currently use it but
we'll go through that quickly then we'll
talk a little about using EMR with s3
and other AWS services quick overview on
kind of just a common practices on how
people are connecting these Hadoop
applications running on EMR to the
various data stores in AWS then we'll go
over a few slides on just some best
practices around securing your Hadoop
stack both from an IM perspective in
application off perspective and an
encryption perspective as well and then
a quick end on lowering costs with auto
scaling which is a new feature that we
launched a couple weeks ago and spot
instances as well and then I'll hand the
mic over to naveen who will talk for the
second half of the presentation on
building a data lake at asurion using
EMRs 3 and a variety of other services
if we have any time at the end we'll
take a few questions so here's a quick
graph we actually update this diagram
every time we do a release we release a
new version of EMR around every five
weeks or so showing actually from about
a year ago EMR for weed relaunch with
EMR 40 and had four or five applications
fast forward a year with EMR 52 which we
released last week or two weeks ago and
we've got it can go over 15 open source
projects and typically the latest
version of each actually with spark we
were a couple days behind spark to
release spark minor versions as well
we're very close behind open source for
those you don't use EMR a quick kind of
view of how we think about the stack of
applications
we have at the base layer we have the
data stores typically customers are
using Amazon s3 as their input and
output data set we'll go over that a
little bit more in detail about why we
see that in a bit but we still actually
install HDFS on your clusters as well if
you needed to say store some temporary
data or had a reason why you needed to
store data locally on the cluster from
there we use yarn and we install yarn
actually the EMR cluster is made up of
core nodes and task nodes and the master
node a core node runs node manager some
of the other demons and HDFS data nodes
the task nodes do not so makes it easier
to scale up and down where if you do
have data in HDFS you don't have to deal
with data node rebalancing we also have
HBase you know no sequel on Hadoop and
Phoenix which is sequel over HBase if
you need to say a sequel interface over
your data in HBase that doesn't run on
yarn in the same thing with presto which
we typically see customers using for
low-latency sequel and s3 and actually
for those who don't know presto it was
born out of facebook netflix i think as
a presentation tomorrow talking about
how they run a 25 petabyte of our house
using presto it's a very powerful tool
for low-latency sequel on top of yarn
we've got a bunch of frameworks as well
that utilize yarn for resource
management we have MapReduce which is
still people using but it's more of a
legacy application but more for batch
analytics tez which now is the default
for hive to on EMR 5 tez is a you know
creates a dag instead of using MapReduce
specifically and gets better performance
utilizes memory and Ted sessions a
little bit to improve performance on say
faster jobs that a lot of spin up time
spark which many you guys seems like I
running today for in memory machine
learning that sort of thing and then we
actually just release support for Apache
flink about a month ago in flink is a
newer stream processing framework people
who have been running storm it's more
similar to a storm like experience you
can we process every record you can do
some cool things about if you get out of
order events changing it by event time
and other things like that it actually
has a great batch interface as well so
we're excited to see that application
grow and
have it today and then on top of that
obviously you have hive PA spark ml
sparks equal spark streaming and all of
that on top of those other frameworks
also would be remiss not to mention with
a bunch of you eyes and actually I will
talk about that in a minute of some of
the you is that are available in the
cluster so here's a put diagram of yarn
so I've mentioned yarn is a core
resource manager for a lot of the apps
we have on EMR in this diagram you can
see this is how yarn might run a spark
application and we like yarn because you
can run a variety of different
frameworks on the same cluster if you
say you have a multi-tenant use case and
yarn does a really great job of managing
all those different applications trading
off resources between the two and then
runs you know containers on all the
slave nodes with the right processes for
spark it would be executors fortes would
be ted's containers and so on and so
forth also your yarn supports kerberos
so you can enable crib rose on those
clusters a deep dive yarn has a bunch of
different schedulers by default EMR uses
the capacity scheduler now we have 1q by
defaults when you submit a job EMR will
bring it into that queue and run it
however let's say that you had a bunch
of different types of workloads and some
were high priority and some worm you can
portion off different resources on the
cluster for different queues and
priorities of you HQ to say look if a
job comes into this queue give the
resources to that job take them away
from from somewhere else and you can
adjust all these settings and actually
Mr has an easy to use configuration API
row and create a cluster you can specify
the configuration file and the key value
pairs to overwrite in this case it'd
probably be in course site where you can
change the different schedulers specify
the different cues that you need and
then create a cluster with with those
configuration settings I mentioned
there's a lot of unclutter you is and
they're all available on the master node
yet by default the EMR security groups
which are your firewall settings turn
off all the ports except for port 22 to
SSH so you can ssh the master node use
port forwarding and have access to a
variety of different UIs actually i'll
show a few in a quick demo
in a minute but you have Hugh for
browsing the hive meta store for your
tables there's a really good sequel
notebook in there sequel editor you can
create Daggs of jobs with Uzis and have
a nice display showing the different
parts of the dag I'm just a great way to
have a nice front end if you're not you
don't want to use the command line we
also have Zeppelin which is a rich
notebook as well very common for spark
users to be able and data scientists to
write notes save them and get restore
from other notes and that sort of thing
but for say the admin rule somebody
trying to debug jobs monitor and that
sort of thing spark you I the resource
manager you I the HBase front end if you
want to see how your region servers are
doing or your cash from this ratio that
sort of thing tezz they go see dags that
might have been run by your hive job
using tez and even flink showing kind of
a logical view of what's going on during
an execution path and if none of those
really meet your use case you can even
bootstrap applications on bootstrap
actions can be specified when you're
starting up a cluster and they run
before we start any of the daimons so
before Hadoop is installed before
anything is installed will run all of
your scripts and we actually have on our
AWS Big Data blog some information on
how to install things like Jupiter our
studio and some other other things as
well you have root access over all the
machines so if there's a library that we
don't have or application we don't have
you can install it yourself this is a
common view of having you know EMR being
able to access data and a variety
different data sets a very common for
complex analytics pipelines to have you
know maybe you're cold source of truth
in s3 but you might be pulling in data
safe from DynamoDB or streaming data in
from something like Apache kafka amazon
kinesis or creating say search indexes
an elastic search and with all these
different applications in EMR you really
have all of the open source connectivity
to all these different storage services
to be able to join data say across two
silos to enrich both or maybe run
analytics on top of many different data
stores in this case actually EMR
recently open sourced our hive DynamoDB
and you can find it on the AWS github
you can also use it with spark so you
can create an external table but specify
that external table over a dynamo DB and
query data or load data directly from
hive or sparks equal into dynamo DB one
thing to take note though is that the
read capacity because keep in mind you
have many different cluster nodes
accessing dynamo dB at once to not get
throttled or get the performance you
need you might need to bump up the
amount of read capacity what doesn't in
there you can use scoop on Amazon EMR to
query data out of RDS or Aurora if you
need to say pull data out of an
operational database and put it into
something like a data warehouse or your
data lake and s3 you can actually build
elastic search index using Hadoop tools
and just load them into amazon elastic
search or elastic search for NC to
redshift supports an open sewage and
spark called spark redshift connector
utilizing basically a redshift export to
s3 and then loading back into your spark
job many different tools integrate with
Kafka and Kinesis spark streaming flink
you can pull data off of those and do
real-time near real-time stream
processing and finally amazon s3 which
is our durable object store and actually
i'll talk about that in a minute but one
example here from a customer use case is
hearst who's using a variety of
different storage systems and kind of
using EMR as the glue between all of
them in this case you know Hearst the
large media company to over 200 web
properties they really want to
understand how their customers are
interacting with those web properties
and doing some recommendation engines
analytics on that data so they collect
all that clickstream data and they push
it there amazon kinesis and they're
running a spark streaming cluster on
amazon and EMR in this case pretty large
micro batches of five minutes but still
you know faster than your typical
offline batch processing to roll up that
information and then write it out to s3
and JSON or CSV and actually they're
running more complicated analytics but
also give you something like Kinesis
firehose to get their data directly into
s3 if you didn't need a full spark
streaming job to process that data once
the data is in s3 they use amazon EMR
once again to pull the data at s3 and
then use the spark redshift connector to
load into amazon redshift and also to
load that data and etl at transform
it in load indexes and elastic search as
well so Amazon EMR in this case almost
serves as the glue between many of these
AWS services to stream in Jets and then
store in an optimized search or data
warehouse but also in and of itself is
doing some processing and analytics work
as well one tip I guess with Amazon s3
and you know amazon s3 designed for
Lebanon's of durability very scalable
low-cost and is really you know the core
idea of decoupling your storage and
compute which my guess as many of the
EMR users here are doing this today it
really gives you the flexibility of your
a not managing your data layer so
managing a very very large HDFS cluster
can be very painful also it's in a
single AZ s3 is available across all
az's meaning you can spin up a cluster
in any AZ in the region and access that
data immediately also it allows you to
shut your cluster down we found that a
lot of folks running Hadoop on prem have
sides as our cluster for HDFS you need
all of your data nodes live to get
access the data but oftentimes the
compute cycles are item it's just
holding on to the data that you're
warehousing so we found that you can
shut down your cluster when you're using
amazon s3 your data is still durable and
available within a couple minutes you
can get another cluster back up and
process it when you need it however you
can also have your cluster on all the
time so it's really up to you from a
cost perspective of what makes the most
sense based on your jobs one thing you
can do though if you're turning your
clusters up and down and your state
using something like hive or presto
which need a table schema stored in the
hive meta store is you can use something
like Amazon Aurora or RDS to store that
table information outside of any one
cluster so when your cluster comes up
you pointed at that database and you
have your tables back you don't need to
recover all of your partitions every
single time and actually there's a big
data blog post or something in AWS labs
that utilizes AWS lambda to update your
partition information assuming that new
data comes in and you haven't loaded it
into a cluster so if you have no cluster
active you can use lambda to add add new
information to the meta store
asynchronously from any cluster a couple
of s three tips you want to avoid key
names and lexa graphical order like say
your time series data and you're
scanning everything through a month the
day times are the same
to improve throughput performance s3
will store things that are lexa
graphically similar kind of more grouped
on to source similar machines if you
have a more diverse lexa graphical key
name for the object it'll distributor
across more machines will get better
list performance and better throughput
you can use hashing techniques to do
that some people flip the date-time
around and other things like that so
common queries will have better
performance obviously compressing your
data set will make a difference you know
you need to have one that's little in
the right way or have the right object
size but you're minimizing the actual
amount of data transferred from s3 over
to the ec2 nodes in your EMR cluster and
also one thing we found is that people
are commonly using parquet assuming that
you don't need to migrate your schema
often and that your queries are can can
leverage something like a columnar file
format for performance because you've
got a wide table you don't need to
access as much data the less data
scanned obviously the better performance
you're going to get one new thing about
s3 actually before before when people
running HBase they'd run HBase that run
HDFS on cluster and have these large
hbase clusters primarily size for the
data stored last week we launched
support for HBase using s three as a
data store so HBase root directory where
you would have say your you know the H
files the data in your table some
additional metadata instead of storing
it on s3 or sorry in HDFS you're storing
it on s3 what that allows you to do is
size the actual cluster for the amount
of process compute and memory because
the region servers will catch them to
this in memory that you need for
performance reasons not necessarily
sizing a large cluster because HBase can
store a lot of data is very scalable no
sequel a lot of times your cluster size
would be very massive for the amount of
data stored but a few things we do to
increase performance because you know
when as a cache miss on a read HBase is
going down to s3 and the random i/o
performance and s3 is obviously not as
good as an SSD is we will cash using the
HBase bucket cash as much as we can on
the local disk of each node and so
typically and actually on the next I'll
explain more of in Rosie's case but if
you it's almost you have a tiered
storage you have the option of saying
well you know I don't really need the
fastest performance on two petabytes of
data so I'm not going to catch
everything I'll catch kind of the
working set that most of the the reads
are accessing but when there's an
outlier I can take a little bit less
performance but pay substantially less
so we have that cash and go on to the
background you can also shut down your
age base cluster and restore it or in a
dr scenario let's say that you needed to
move your cluster to another AZ because
all of your data is already there and
durable and s3 you can shut down your
HBase cluster and one AZ and bring up
another one and have a recovery time of
minutes which might typically take days
and a great example of that is FINRA's
use case they actually posted a blog
post on the Big Data blog talking about
an application they built on EMR with
HBase on s3 stores around three trillion
market records and they put about a
billion of it in each day and it'll go
in depth about this out here of a
presentation tomorrow I highly encourage
you to check it out they'll go into more
detail than I will here but a high level
they were running this cluster using
HDFS and they managed to save sixty
percent which is a significant amount of
money with the size at 700 terabyte
cluster by taking the data in s3 and
moving or sorry in HDFS moving a desk
three running HBase on EMR and
decoupling the storage and compute in
this case their bulk loading with hive
and then doing random reads on this data
to back and interactive application
shifting gears from talking about s3 is
a storage and some of the other storage
layers you can access in EMR talking a
little bit about security you can run
EMR in a private subnet we see this is a
popular way to deploy TMR customers in
that case we'll use a s3 endpoint and
VPC so the cluster can access the data
in s3 directly from the private subnet
and if you have to access say things
that have public endpoints like say
using hive to query DynamoDB or retrieve
an AWS KMS key any endpoint that's not
in a private subnet you'll need to use
something like a gnat or manage net to
be able to access that range a new
feature we actually just launched two
weeks ago is a support for fine-grained
access control by cluster tags today
when you create a cluster you have a
service role I am role that you give to
the EMR service to have permission to
say create ec2 instances terminate these
this is when your cluster has done and
then an instance profile that you put on
each node that gives you know each node
in the cluster I guess Park executors
when
calls out to access data and s3 those
permissions and that already existed but
we allow now is in a policy and I am
policy or and I am a user policy to have
set a condition on EMR ap is in that
policy of grants or and I depending on
where there's a cluster tags you can
create a cluster and actually enforce a
user to say when user a creates a
cluster must be tagged with you know
user group analytics and that clusters
created the user can't move the tag and
then only a certain set of users would
be able to say add nodes delete the
cluster add steps or units of work any
of the EMR API is involved in the
cluster that involve interactive the
cluster you can limit by cluster tag now
but even furthermore that's kind of more
of a cluster level security way of doing
things but oftentimes you might have a
multi-tenant cluster with many users
interacting with say hi you have a bunch
of analysts some analysts have access to
table a some might have only access to
table B and you want to control
everything through the Gateway point and
so this slide right here and actually
this is going to be a little bit ahead
but in the AWS Big Data blog will be
posting more information about how to do
this so this is a little bit of a
preview you can you can can do this by
configuring hide server to as a bunch of
ways but this new blog post talks about
using apache ranger which is a open
source project that's almost like a
policy generator and enforcer for many
of the Hadoop ecosystem applications in
this example you can use something like
you and you can do this today and link
up Hugh using ldap to say your Active
Directory to get all of your users so
when a user comes to the terminal they
can login as themselves but then the new
thing is using a cloud formation script
from this blog to install ranger on an
ec2 instance and then have high of
server to and HDFS in this example
interact with that policies that you've
created an arranger to say you know if
I've logged in to Hugh as user a can
user a access this table or not and
actually if we could switch over to my
computer I have contribute some of these
things look like
so here I've set up Hugh just like that
was shown community active directory and
hopefully this will log in there we go
and for those who don't know Hugh it's
it's a very useful tool you have a
robust sequel editor you can go browse
tables in this case the table with some
sample data you guys should have a nice
preview of what some of that data is so
it's great for analysts and writing ad
hoc queries but there's there's two
tables in the cluster there's table
antal table analysts to which I logged
in as table analyst one you can't see
which is by design but if you run it
they'll call out to ranger and see if
I've access and the end I'm denied from
the Ranger view and the Ranger UI has a
rich you I where it actually uses solar
on the backend to process basically your
audit trail so you can go as an admin
user and Ranger see who's been accessing
what and then here as you can see might
take a minute to refresh but earlier I
was doing it you know you can see here
who's been denied who's had access and
then from you know the access here you
can control all of your policies with a
rich you I here as you can see for
analysts to I don't have access to table
1 and I was denied so it's a very very
nice way we can switch back to the
slides it's a very easy way to manage a
lot of policies for hive and the rolling
out more and more support for more
applications as well I've got a race
through the next slide so I can hand it
over to naveen but i do want to mention
that we support now encryption fortes
spark and MapReduce and we make it easy
using a feature called security
configurations wherein here's a
screenshot from the console you can
select the AWS KMS geez you want to use
or you can provide an encryption
materials provider with information on
how to say access keys from your HSM or
custom keys and can save this
configuration with us and then reference
it when creating a cluster and before
everything starts up will encrypt all
the local drives using luxe will
configure encrypted shuffle for sparc
encrypted shuffle for Hadoop on Tess and
then with data and s3 will configure EMR
FS which is as I mentioned before rs3
connector to be able to interact with
data s3 that's encrypted client-side or
server side using
ms3 managed keys so if encryption is
important also mr is included under the
list of services that are HIPAA eligible
in AWS so this is interesting happy to
talk more also after the presentation
but all this is available today in an
example that is Nasdaq they presented
this presentation actually reinvent last
year they have a federated data lake
over amazon redshift for a subset of
aggregate data that's more hot that is
using you know the very powerful
performance of redshift but then using
press Tony amar which is still fast it's
not quite as optimized for a lot of
complex joins but still useful for
low-latency sequel on a day too late
that's all of their data and it's a
little bit easier to store low cost
because s3 is designed for low cost you
can shut their cluster down when an
analysts say needs access to all the
historical data sometimes they can fire
up a presto cluster and give that
analysts equal interface over that data
then shut it down and I'll pay for but
in this case the presentation goes into
more on how they manage a bunch of
custom keys to use VMR because they
client-side encrypt all their data and
s3 so shifting to the final point that I
want to go through is auto scaling and
spot me mr shipp support for auto
scaling two weeks ago and it's available
in most regions and we'll be rolling it
out to more regions in the next couple
months basically EMR sends metrics the
cloud watch today yarn metrics let me
actually have a few new ones like yarn
percentage used memory and containers
pending ratio just metrics that have to
do with how much is my cluster being
utilized and if I added more nodes would
I actually have any extra capacity that
gets pumped today and behind the scenes
EMR is configuring CloudWatch alarms and
using application auto scaling to when
you've you know set a policy saying when
yarn memory is utilized eighty percent
add nodes EMR will go through that and
then add nodes to your cluster in
applications like spark with dynamic
allocation will take advantage of the
new nodes that come up and scale those
applications out the same thing for
going down and deke and decreasing the
cluster size and actually with this new
feature we have to scale down behaviors
the default one now is we won't scale
down your cluster until it's nearing
that instance our boundary you've pay
for the hour for the instance having it
around for longer isn't going to hurt
and maybe a new job will come in that
will utilize that capacity so we've
instrumented logic and do not actually
terminate the instance until it nears
that hourly boundary however we also
have behavior to say you know don't
terminate the instance unless all yarn
containers are done running on that node
and then will blacklist a node and drain
off the work and eventually nothing will
be running and we'll shut it down so you
have more of a kind of cost optimized
scale down and a you know workflow don't
lose any any running tasks option as
well and finally before I conclude I
want to announce that we are going to be
coming out soon with a feature advanced
spot provisioning that'll be available
soon what it allow you to do it has some
kind of flavor of the spot fleet feature
set if anyone hears familiar with spot
fleet and support for spot blocks as
well it allow you to specify a set of
instances to choose from with a bunch of
different bid prices also several
different az's and based on the capacity
of those instant types and the acs and
what's available for the lowest unit
cost EMR will provision a mix of these
instances to give you the head of the
lowest cost cluster in the AC with the
the most available capacity to avoid any
spot interruptions also a spot block
support if you know that your job saying
takes four hours you can use a specified
spot block and not actually get that
data interrupted so anyway I'll hand the
mic over to naveen to talk a little bit
about how they built the data lake with
EMR at asurion thanks Don hey I'm not
mean from asurion today we're gonna
focus on how to leverage amazon services
to build the data like that with a
single unified data lake where you can
support your today's kind of analysis
where you have traditional bi users
report user's data scientists at the
same time keeping the cost and security
in mind how many of you guys know water
who is asurion right
so Julian is the leader in providing
customer support and provide it's a
leader in production services so when
you guys have your devices and if it has
supported warranty that's what a Chilean
provides today as you can imagine when
you guys lose a phone or some kind of an
electronic device that you were attached
to it's quite a hassle to get back to
your contacts your poor photos and all
of your social media content so asurion
basically helps our goal is to make
technology seamlessly work and make our
customers have a live stretcher so we
are a.cian supports almost 229 290
million users globally and you have a
constant innovation that happens at the
asurion and we are global in u.s. South
America Europe and Japan issuing has a
wide variety of for data sources ranging
from oltp applications to unstructured
data from telephony voice to text claims
data nodes and social with 290 million
customers and over a 10 billion
interactions and 52 million interactions
for voice and 24 million claims and
unique visitors we have a huge volume of
data so which comes down to the typical
challenge of the volume velocity and
variety when we started this project
back in 2015 our data's growth was
around data size at the time was around
one petabyte so in the last year and a
half we have actually grown 823
petabytes and we expect the data to be
grown to eight petabytes so with this
particular with this expectation of data
growth what we are trying to have is how
do you define a single unified platform
to support today's users especially
article users so for which what we have
laid out is some core fundamental
principles that would help and guide us
a while building our data lake and
provisioning get to the other end users
one of the guiding principle that we
have embraced is to store all the
enterprise data in one single location
so what did this enables us to do is to
reduce the data proliferation
and it reduces the data footprint of for
the data export your data breaches other
key a one of the principle that we have
leverage it is to provide the data as
quickly as possible to analysts or our
data scientists to do data discovery and
data analysis and provide value or
actionable content or information from
the data so for which we have embraced
ELT as a pattern rather than the
traditional ETL pattern and data quality
is the key because we have to build
trust in the data that we have have so
what we recommend is to handle data
quality and data security from get go
when you're designing your data lake
data security is also key foundation
with the recent changes with brexit in
EU and now linkedin now being banned in
russia security policies are constantly
changing so cab and of metadata attached
to your data when policies change you
can embrace that and model instead of
rebuilding your data like you can just
configure data like to meet to those
local security guidelines we talked
about velocity and variety and the one
other thing that we wanted to embrace is
with the recent wall with the recent
changes how things are moving towards
the market with MVP and agile way of
building products scale is very
important for us because an MVP can be
successful in a market or cannot be
successful in the market but if it is
such a successful how do you scale that
thing without having to invest your lot
of money in infrastructure capital
investment in infrastructure so we
wanted to have a system where we can
scale on demand without manual
intervention and other thing is we would
like to have the cost of the minimal so
we would like to do it as a
pay-as-you-go model to keep all of these
things in mind and to keep our
operational costs lower and to / to
support the business agility we have
chosen platform as a service as our core
foundation door architecture to solve
the challenge we have chosen this as our
logical architecture where you can see
on the left hand side
all of our OLTP systems where we can
produce the transactional data in the
traditional relational databases or even
like the events coming from your devices
and also even from the social media
events so we take the data and we have a
data extraction layer our data service
layer where we collect through a
standard interface of woody bc of JDBC
or a change data control or change data
capture like sequel replicator or oracle
goldengate tools where you can extract
the data and encrypt it especially when
moving the data into the cloud and it
could cross a country boundaries so we
want to make sure that we are securing
the sensitive information so in clip the
sensitive information and then load it
into our data link so in data lake where
we have s three as our central hub where
we persist all the data and we use
llamar to process the data to make that
raw data to be meaningful content or
information once the processing is done
we take the model data and pump it into
optimized data sources in this
particular scenario we are using the
Amazon redshift and dynamo dB based upon
the use cases and the other layer that
you see on the right hand side is your
data virtualization layer we use this as
a single unified layer to control access
to the users basically we authenticate
and authorize the users a single layer
rather than configuring security at each
of the product level sequel server
hazard security Oracle has a security
redshift hazard security the things of
that nature instead of configuring
security at all of these places we have
chosen a parameter configuration so we
encapsulate all of the data around data
virtualization and configure security at
one single place and that's just a
traditional bi reporting tools any tools
which supports JDBC odbc or REST API can
be used like click view a tableau or
spot fire or quick sites the bottom you
see is our enterprise orchestration
layer where we use this environment to
schedule the jobs within our ecosystem
from the data and move the data across
the different data sources like the red
shift and and sequel servers or our
Amazon audis on the top you see an
environment where we have created to
support traditional test data management
in today's world when you do your ETL
work in secret data warehouses or Oracle
data warehouses you have production
systems then you have dev systems and
keyway systems most of the time people
spend quite a bit of time trying to
generate the test data syst dinner to
move the data into the lower environment
for the development team to build and
test so with help of Amazon a llamar and
s3 architecture we were able to mitigate
the need for test data management and
leverage directly able to access the
data directly from s3 and providing the
capability to the users to do their
development without impacting the
production ecosystem here is the sum of
the just over left amazon web services
icons on our daily lake what we have
been using so far this is not a
comprehensive list for this particular
scenario we just put a sample set we use
Amazon of fire hose and Kinesis stream
for even streaming with the lambda we
use Amazon s3 for your central data
storage EMR for data processing our ds's
for external meta stores and other
transactional data sets and amazon
redshift for your columnar reporting and
we use a elastic Beanstalk and the
elastic catch to provide the api's from
some of the data that has been churned
using a llamar so now we talked about
this brief overview for our data lake
architecture so in this particular
section what we're going to focus on is
amazon s3 so during our journey we're
going to share some of the key sly key
takeaways that we have learned during
our journey while interesting data into
the amazon s3 and as typical for all
storage system we wanted to be secure
scalable durable and tiered storage
so for that we have chosen s3 so while
we ingesting data into the data lake
some of the key things that we had to
transform the data so that it becomes
much more easy to transform using EMR
MapReduce or even through spark
especially with their way the five
different file more file formats are
available and some of them are
splittable some of them are not
spreadable so some of the key takeaways
that we have learned during our journey
was to handle carriage returns in line
fits in the data that you have so that
it doesn't becomes a split record and
I'm the MapReduce doesn't really test
two different records to processor and
we also chosen a specific delimiter and
remove the delimiters from the rest of
the text and other thing key important
thing that we have learnt is how do you
handle time we have servers and all over
the world and each one has its own local
timezone so before we ingesting the data
into the data lake we have chosen to
converted into UTC as a single time zone
and other thing is based upon the
MapReduce containers and the size of the
nodes that we use in the amount of
memory that are available on it so file
sizes are very key otherwise you're
going to get the splits or it's gonna
wait for resources or you going to get
memory overflow with the JVM so what we
have done is we have be ingesting itself
we are able to split the files at 128
Meg so we recommend anything greater
than hundred 128 meg and 512 megs of a
file size compress it using gzip or
snapping is one of the key things that
we have learnt for performance and for a
data scanning it's better to always have
a partitioning strategy in place where
you can choose to partition your data
based upon your business activity date
or whichever is meaningful to you or our
data set and the other thing is that on
s3 the object pap is case sensitive so
if you have multiple developers
developing it so we would like to
convert it into one single case either
converted to uppercase or a lowercase so
we have chosen to convert it into lower
case so now we know how to get the data
into the data like what are the
transformations that may need to do to
get it
to do for the data to be transformed to
get it into the data lake so we have
used Python libraries to do push the
data from on-prem to AWS s3 we have
leveraged multi-part upload strategy and
while loading the data into the data
lake to make based not all data is equal
right so some data is much more valuable
and that the data some data is access to
more often than the other so we have
different classes in Amazon s3 so one is
the standard storage one is reduced
redundant storage others infrequent axis
so you can choose to set those settings
while you're doing the upload process
and you also have the lifecycle policies
and enable so that you can move the data
from a higher cost storage to the lower
cost storage from standard to I
infrequent access once the data is
processed and other thing is on s3 one
of the recommendation that we have is
keep your storage and compute as close
together as possible so we don't want
you two guys launching an EMR cluster in
EU and keep the data storage in us so
that gives you better performance if you
keep this thing local together and the
cost will also be much more economical
one other thing we have also noticed
this on s3 you have a throttling of 100
puts deletes and gets or 300 gets so
when you reach the glitter you have an
option to either expand or to request
for another bucket and you can partition
the data for those buckets and always
tag your things so that you can know how
to track your costs and for s3 you can
also have IP restriction policies where
you can say it is bound to certain IP
you cannot access it from any other IP
then your organization IP range and we
can use the I am and AC else to control
the security on it oh sorry so now we
know how to get the data into the data
like we have put the data into the data
so once we wanted to put the data into
the data lake we needed to have some
kind of a logical structure how to
organize the data in the data like for
those things what we have defined is
basically for logical layers of data
so in layer 1 what we are calling it as
raw data where you keep the data at as
the raw format as much as possible with
minimal amount of transformation so it
becomes our system of truth and does the
basic minimum and encryption for your
sensitive data transform your data gets
it into the data link layer on layer 2
is basically taking the raw data
applying your quality rules and
transforming the data to a different
partitioning strategy that's more much
more faster and economical for your
analyst to use so in raw data in layer 1
you would like to choose a partition
strategy that would be much more
economical to handle your ETL daily
deltas but in layer to you might be
choosing a different partition strategy
based upon what kind of queries you're
running so in layer 2 we have chosen Oh
RC & Park as our file formats in layer 3
is basically taking this all of this oil
TP system or our data sets and then
trying to model them using a data walk
to point of pattern so it's a standard
pattern available it's a similar to your
Start schemas in the traditional bi
model the data what helps us with the
EMR that's much more optimized to
process the data where I don't have to
process all the facts before the
dimensions so in layer 3 we choose 0 RC
as our primary format for people to
query the data and we also choose tax to
write the final output so we use this
data to push the data into redshift if
some of this data is required to be much
more SLA bound and the fourth layer is
basically a reference data which is
basically confirmed dimensions or master
data and we use / CS or file format
there now we have the capability of
getting the data storing the data and we
have logically organized it now we would
like to see how we can process the data
so as Jonathan has talked about we are
those are the best practices I'd have a
single meta store for all of your data
so that you know where your data is
located what is its structure you can
have transient clusters or long-running
clusters and all the clusters so you can
have more than one running cluster
attended at a time and all of them can
be looking at the same as three objects
so what
happens with this is you don't have to
duplicate the data the data stays at one
single copy reduces your cost and with
the transient cluster so you can compute
and then shut it down as soon as you are
done amazonian wat supports much more
applications than traditional MapReduce
to support stairs a spark and one of the
application it also supports is presto
presto is used for our ad hoc usage for
doing summer query analysis animal and
in this slide we would like to keep the
attention to why we have a second
wettest or for personal and we'll go in
details of white we have to do that so
at this time with this particular code
fundamental architecture right with
Amazon s3 for your storage and EMR as we
are compute we are able to deploy this
particular platen at a sharia in u.s. EU
and japan and some of the stats that we
have is more than 50 plus business
analyst and report users are freeing the
data from our data like we have more
than thousand ad-hoc queries once per
day and we have 20-plus sources of data
in our data link and 100 plus of ETL
hive jobs run every single day to
convert the data from raw data to
quality or model the data and we have
more than 25 + spark jobs to run some of
the what we call like a churn prediction
or a lifetime value for some of the
analytical mates and we have more than 2
plus petabytes in our data like in the
next slide we will talk about some of
the lessons learnt during llamar the key
thing here is always when you're
creating an EMR hive database to use s 3
s 3 path so by default it takes the
master rud IP space and when you destroy
the cluster and we'll bring the red
cluster app in the hive meta story still
have the same IP space so to have some
you will have some issues with it we
have faced some of those issues while we
migrating from one environment to
another environment so we recommend
using s3 path use external tables use a
single metal store and you can recover
partitions into the data lake from your
s3 into a high metal store by running a
simple ms secure repair command
you can alter table and add partitions
into it you have three different
endpoints for s3 normally one is s 3 s 3
and s 3 a 4 EMR FS we choose we will
recommend you to choose s 3 by default
if not if that if application doesn't
support s3 you can choose s3n but sta is
not something that we would recommend to
use it's not supported at this point of
time and you have the clusters which are
a transient and long-running we have
scheduled our clusters on and off but
bringing up and down using Python
libraries and our enterprise scheduler
one of the things about there once you
have the data when you process the data
you would like to compress the output so
for the compression we have chosen gzip
as a highly compression but it's not
splittable and snappy for a streaming
data which has a low compression but
it's a split able some of the key
takeaways from highway is basically
partition your data d normalize your
data enable speculative execution we
have chosen file format or say parka is
also good overseas before us was much
more interoperable enable vectorization
enable parallel execution of jobs and
enable your compression of your
intermediate output between MapReduce
jobs between the mappers and also enable
the joints or to convert joints what
will his if you have a smaller table we
joined a bigger table than the smaller
table can be spread across all of the
data nodes it doesn't have to do the
shuffling of the data and can keep it in
memory and get you the results much
faster so now we have learned about
processing of the data now we have
processed there now how do we enable our
business users to access this data for
which what we have leverage this presto
which is a native application on AMR for
low-latency queries some of the lessons
that we learned for presto was for us or
see was much more interoperable while
you're working with presto presto
supports predicate push done so that it
doesn't have to bring all of the data
into the memory it can say hey if I'm
looking for certain
range of data it can just look at that
partition and get the data back to you
so resto is way faster than high went as
it supports low latency queries and it
is a very memory intensive so we got
better results when we used our 3 2
x-large as our machine type and some of
the things that we need to watch out
when you're doing presto is then hive
supports bucketing and presto still is a
challenge with bucketing they're based
up on github latest articles the new
releases are going to support bucketing
but as of when we were working with it
bucketing was a challenge and presta was
not able to handle complex data
structures like maps that you can define
our structures that you can define in
hives so presto was having a challenge
but most of those things are getting
resolved and other thing is when you're
doing huge data set joints based upon
your node type how much number you have
the joints there is a memory limit how
much you have so an r32 x-large i think
it is 30 gigs of your remember if your
data size excuse more than 30 gig then
you need to do much more little bit more
configurations on it and press call
still has I mean the latest release of
press which has been taken care of but
in the older versions of presto you have
a challenge of mapping the hive data
types to press the data type some of
this are like floats characters and
Bearcats some of the settings that will
give you a better optimal results is how
much a single query can take a memory
across all of your data nodes and what
is your time worth of a single query and
the age of the correct so age and time
what or the key if your timeout is lower
than amount of time it execute the query
then you will not get any results so you
need to make sure that your age and time
would have been set appropriately and
also enable we have what we have learnt
is forty-two percent of our memory it
can be allocated for each query on a
given data node with the latest release
of over c2 or with the rotations of over
C Drive words the vassar days we were
able to see much more improvement in
pushing down with the or C files of the
searches when we are having enable the
the bloom filters and optimize the
reader and for the overseas so these are
some of the key lessons that we have
learned
our journey with the presta and I will
talk about why we had to create a
separate matter store for presto as you
guess in the previous slide we talked
about hive has certain data types which
are not all compatible with the Presto
in order to make that change you have to
create again a table structure in hive
to handle them or impress her to handle
them so what we have done is created an
automation routine which takes the hive
meta store convert the data types and
then puts it into another meta store and
records all of the partitions from it so
in this case what happens is if the
presto compatibility is not there those
fields will not be available in presto
this will enable you to get the
particular data back with the latest
release of EMR point one five two most
of these challenges have been resolved
so now we will talk about sandboxes how
you can enable sandboxes for your
development resources or fewer resources
on for your data analyst for data
scientists as we talked before that in
traditional world you have to do test
data management with help of EMR and s3
we are able to mitigate that challenge
the way we mitigated that challenge here
is in the production environment we have
the production as three storage and how
its production with more clusters you
see the maroon s3 storage that is the
sandbox storage which is also an s3 but
on a different bucket and you have each
sandbox can has its own ear more
clusters why do we need to have its own
ear more clusters right the reason why
you need to have an ear more clusters is
you can have gone to configure with your
schedules when samples when users are
submitting jobs to the yarn you have to
put in your queue name too so that hey
use this default cube so that I can have
these resources this very it was a
challenging for us to train our users so
we were able to mitigate the challenge
by providing each group of users a
standard dedicated your more plaster for
them to analyze their own data and we
were able to handle security by having
separate meta store foots and wats one
for production and one for sandboxes and
we have we can have more than one
sandbox and each strand work can have
all of the sandboxes will have one
single
meta store and you can sync your
production data meta store to the day of
Metal Storm and the from security
perspective you can make sure with the I
am policies yeah the production is going
to have only read only and read that
access to Santeria Swartz's so below you
will see a small script that will help
you to create a near more cluster
through command line where you can set
up a policy where you're launching an
earmark cluster at the last language is
called instance profile a more easy to
sandbox one roll one so during in that
role you can specify and I am policy
stating that hey deny all delete object
and put output actions on your
production bucket so that makes your
production bucket secure at the same
time we can have the delete and write
objects on your design box so that they
can have a process output in the in
there localized environments now with
all of the users having their own sand
boxes now we wanted to have a provision
mechanism to manage costs and also they
have the ability to scale up and scale
down or clusters automatically based
upon the workload so with the latest
release of the Amazon more or the
scaling it has some of the metrics
available in the cloud watch as like is
the cluster idle number of container
spending so those are all out of the box
what we have also leverage is to create
a cpu usage as a custom metrics and you
can also define the minimum and the
maximum count of your cluster to scale
up and scale down and when should it
occur when your load is greater than
sixty percent or eighty percent so here
is the sample graph in working that we
were able to using ganglia ganglia is
distributed matrix collector which is a
native application on EMR where it gives
you based upon your ear more jobs
running what is the load it is taking
and the next graph next to it which is
on the other side of the CPU graph talks
about your MapReduce increasing and
decreasing based upon the load so we
have for this particular order scaling
is done through CPU metrics so cpu
metrics is not available out of the
standard cloud wat metrics so we have
used the ganglia to get those things in
the next slide we talked about how to
use gum here too
that matrix so ganglia has a URL where
you can ask in the response and as a
JSON where it gives you the CPU usage by
minute so we take the data using lambda
we are able to compute the per minute
cpu usage and it is a snapple a sample a
snippet of code where you can calculate
the average minutes cpu usage once you
have that cpu usage you can create a
cloud watch alarm we were able to
leverage again the lambda to create a
cloud watch alarm to create to write to
cloud wats as a custom metric of one
every minute CPU usage with that we are
able to create as a metric to do scale
up and scale down here is a sample slide
that demonstrates the cost savings that
we were able to accomplish on an average
were able to get fifty five percent of
cost savings during with our EMR auto
scaling and that is we also have
reserved instances in this particular
scenario but if you take reserved
instances off you would have forty
percent of the cost savings so now we
will talk about data virtualization so
we have used the data virtualization as
a single layer where you can configure
security so this security enables
authentication and authorization for the
end users here is a typical architecture
that we have used in we have encrypted
all up our data at the field level
before putting into amazon s3 once we
have the data there we are able to
process it and persist in the higher
layers we also have presto for users to
query the data add hotly some of the
model data based upon sls have been also
moved into redshift now you have at two
different places the data what some is
in s3 some of that is an redshift how
does a user know which data is where and
how do i do their cross federation
joints so for which what we have
leveraged is a data virtualization layer
where you can configure security
authentication authorization and do data
Federation and keep all of this
technologies abstract from the end users
so that tomorrow
might find a new technology that helps
us so we don't want our users to rewrite
the code so data virtualization helps us
to write traditional antsy sequel code
so here are some of the advantages of
using a data virtualization so all of
the code that you are writing is going
to be answer sequel compliant and it can
be pushed down to the end sources so
that if say for example if you're trying
to push get data from presto all of the
query goes into presto presto does all
of the work and brings it back if for
certain reason if you want to do data
set joints between presto and redshift
so it will try to do push down as much
as possible to both of the sources get
the final output and then do the joint
as minimal as possible in the data
virtualization so you can also enable
column and row level security in the
data virtualization and we can enable
authentication against your on-premise
or your existing ldap for compliance so
all the Idaho queries and reports are
two JDBC and odbc against Amazon
redshift and presto so as we was talking
before you don't have to worry about
configuring security at multiple sources
configuring it one maintaining it one
becomes much more economical and
feasible so some of the key takeaways
that what we have learned during our
journey is manage costs from get go so
create tags to all of your resources
manage them accordingly do real-time
frictionless scaling using am more auto
scaling capabilities align to put design
patterns like platform-as-a-service
leverage readily available solutions
that we building those things and design
/ security and compliance from start as
we all know the security is going to
change and evolve as the privacy of the
people has become much more whatever
intrusive or with the latest changes
with brexit and link them and fail
forward and it just as needed and hard
on your solutions in one market place
and then deployed into other markets
basis with this I'm going to hand it
over to Jonathan I just want to say
thanks everybody for coming to the
presentation remember to complete your
evaluations will be here to take some
question
um afterwards as well thank you